Lfwfeedback scope etc (#240)
rocket-pool/RPIPs: RPIPs/RPIP-46.md

## Abstract
Currently, the commission determines the payout of revenue split between rETH and each specific minipool. Other parties, such as RPL, gain value indirectly. This proposal allows for splitting revenue between four initial parties: rETH (the main product), node operators (the decentralized operators actually staking), voters (a subset of operators that have vote power), and a surplus revenue mechanism.

This proposal also includes:

> 1. A security council-controlled settings that can mildly increase the NO share -- this is being used to find a reasonable setting based on the actual market more quickly than the pDAO is able to act

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A setting controlled by the security council that can mildly increase the NO share -- this can be used to react to market conditions more quickly than the pDAO is able to act
```

This RPIP is part of a set of proposals motivated by a desire to rework Rocket Pool's tokenomics to ensure the protocol’s continued value, development, and longevity. For more details, see the supporting documentation [here](../tokenomics-explainers/001-why-rework). 

## Specification
### UARS
1. There SHALL be the following defined shares with settings: `node_operator_commission_share`, `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`, `voter_share`, `surplus_share`
   1. `node_operator_commission_share + node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: each NO receives this percentage of the commission from the borrowed ETH on validators they run. Unlike the remainder of the shares, this is _not_ a protocol revenue (ie, it is not socialized).
   2. `voter_share`: each NO receives a share of revenue based on the vote-eligible RPL staked to their megapool. The overall voter share of revenue is based on the setting, and each NO receives a proportion of that based on `vote_eligible_RPL_in_their_megapool/total_vote_eligible_RPL_in_megapools`.

>    3. `surplus_share`: this share of revenue is used to distribute revenue beyond that used for protocol operation (such as the shares above)

Reviewer 2: We need to also include the "adder" for surplus share. I think we also want guardrails on the "adder" parameter that make sure that it stays <= `surplus_share`
```suggestion
   3. `surplus_share - node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` - : this share of revenue is used to distribute revenue beyond that used for protocol operation (such as the shares above)
```

Reviewer: We also need to consider handling this if "surplus revenue" to voter share wins...
Any changes to the adder by default affect rETH total fee, and would need pDAO vote to readjust voter share to keep rETH total fee the same (and voter_share may require 75% approval?)

Author: Added the subtraction to surplus share above. Then I added the guardrail as:

> 6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only allow values where:
   1. 0% ≤ `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` ≤ `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` 
   2. `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` ≤ `surplus_share`

2. `reth_commission` SHALL be defined as the sum of all defined shares that have settings
3. `reth_share` SHALL be defined as `100% - reth_commission`
4. Distributions of revenue from borrowed ETH MUST respect the defined shares
   1. If shares change between claims, distributions MUST make an effort to account for the different values. For example, a distribution could use a duration-weighted average share. Approximations MAY be used where they significantly reduce complexity and/or costs.
   2. Legacy minipools are an exception and SHALL continue to support earlier distribution methodologies 

> 5. `node_operator_commission_share` and `surplus_share`, SHALL be updateable by an address in the `allowlisted_controllers` array

Reviewer 3: Should probably include `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` in here as well.  This would allow the pDAO to increment NO commission and decrease the adder simultaneously, allowing council more room without changing the total NO commission.

   1. This functionality SHALL not be used without a separate pDAO vote to enable a controller and add it to the list

> 6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only be set to values within 0% and `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` (inclusive)

Reviewer 3: SHALL only have valid values of [...]?
As written this could be interpreted as the security council should do one thing without there being SC limits.

> 6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only be set to values within 0% and `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` (inclusive)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only allow values within 0% and `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` (inclusive)
```

> 6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only be set to values within 0% and `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` (inclusive)

Reviewer: Previously there was a provision to also automatically lower "surplus_share" to account for the increased "no_share"... Did we want to add this? (Otherwise any changes to `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` will increase the total rETH fee and pDAO vote would have to lower a different share to ensure we stay at the same rETH fee)

Author: Yes, that's my b.

Author: Changing it above:

> 3. `surplus_share -  node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: this share of revenue is used to distribute revenue beyond that used for protocol operation (such as the shares above)

> 6. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL only be set to values within 0% and `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` (inclusive)

Reviewer 2: If no direct guardrail for adders based on `surplus_share`, could also do that on `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` instead

Author: went another route above

7. The `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` setting SHALL be controllable by the security council without requiring a delay

> 8. The security council SHOULD increment `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` by 0.5% if the deposit pool is over half-full for the majority of a 2-week period with a constant `node_operator_commission_share + node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`

Reviewer: Generally if we have the additionally complexity of council controlled settings, I think we might as well allow full freedom between the range (take advantage of letting it also be used to lower the NO_share if the NO queue is consistently too long). But in either case I think we either use "MAY"/move to optional heuristic section for flexibility. Or if we want it to work strictly in a similar way as the seals did, we should update this to "SHALL". Leaving it here as "SHOULD" could be confusing for the security council to decide if a specific situation is worth doing something different than "SHOULD"

Reviewer: Or maybe delineate “SHALL” for increment by 0.5%, but “SHOULD” for 2 week deposit pool thing

Author: Going with:
```
8. The security council SHOULD increment `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` by 0.5% if the deposit pool is over half-full for the majority of a 2-week period with a constant `node_operator_commission_share + node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`
    1. The security council SHALL NOT otherwise change `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`
```

Reviewer: Makes sense...

> 9. `voter_share` SHALL NOT be controllable by pDAO vote and SHALL be initialized to 5%

Reviewer: Why add this comment and remove `voter_share` from "initial settings SHALL be"...

Author: Because it's not a pDAO setting -- we would not be able to vote in a new value

> 9. `voter_share` SHALL NOT be controllable by pDAO vote and SHALL be initialized to 5%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Not necessary if "surplus revenue to voter_share" wins, and if it doesn't then the "supermajority clause" is already spec'd elsewhere:
https://github.com/rocket-pool/RPIPs/pull/240/files/73f9eae9a3be121d7eaa569b3e1377b2d97e4faf#diff-b9a67dc438d7daecd19987642b8a1032d4d73e280ea9f4484e1856852baaf1a4R90

Author: Added within "If higher `voter_share` is selected:"
> 4. `voter_share` SHALL be a pDAO setting (and thus the specification item about it not being controllable by pDAO vote MUST also be removed)

10. The initial pDAO settings SHALL be:
    1. `node_operator_commission_share`: 3.5%
    2. `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: 0%
    3. `surplus_share`: 5.5%

>     4. `max_node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: 1%

Reviewer: What was the rationale for lowering to only 1% of wiggle room? (Previously it was 6 seals with 0.5% each = 3% of wiggle room)?

Generally I think the less wiggle room given, the less necessary the whole addional complexity is... We are giving essentially 2 free increases at 2 weeks each vs 2 votes at ~4 weeks each. So we save 1 month of time? (Comparison is weird since I doubt we'd change back to back like that, but it helps illlustrate how it doesn't seem necessary).

Reviewer 2: see Rationale section, line 119

    5. `allowlisted_controllers`: []

### Inflation
1. Inflation settings SHALL be modified to retain inflation to the DAOs and eliminate inflation to NOs
   1. `rpl.inflation.interval.rate` SHALL be set to `1000040763630249500` (1.5% per year)
   2. Node Operators (`rocketClaimNode`) allocation SHALL be set to 0%
   3. pDAO (`rocketClaimDAO`) allocation SHALL be set to 95%
   4. oDAO (`rocketClaimTrustedNode`) allocation SHALL be set to 5%

### Surplus revenue share vote
Prior to the release of Saturn 1, a ranked-choice vote MUST be held to select a mechanism for surplus revenue share

> 1. The choices MAY include [RPIP-45: RPL Burn](RPIP-45.md), [RPIP-50: RPL LP](RPIP-50.md), using higher `voter_share`, and/or additional options

Reviewer 2: "and/or additional options" seems unnecessary given that this is started with "MAY include".

2. If higher `voter_share` is selected:
   1. The entirety of the ["Specification taking effect with Saturn 2"](#specification-taking-effect-with-saturn-2) section below SHALL be deleted

>    2. `voter_share` SHALL become controllable by pDAO vote; however, it SHALL require a supermajority vote with at least 75% of the vote in support of any increase 

Reviewer 2: what is the point of having 75% when `voter_share` won? The conflict is between `surplus_share` and `voter_share`, not `no_share`. 
If we need 75% rule here, why don't we have it for changing `no_share` vs `surplus_share` from the start or for other selections of `surplus_share` ?

Author: Yep - deleting that line

   3. `voter_share` MAY be updated by an address in the `allowlisted_controllers` array
3. The selected mechanism MAY be implemented in Saturn 1

>    1. If not, the revenue SHALL be held in reserve until the mechanism is implemented. In such a case, once the mechanism is implemented, the revenue SHALL be distributed in the same amount of time it took to build up, or faster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. If not, the revenue SHALL be held in reserve until the mechanism is implemented. In such a case, once the mechanism is implemented, the revenue SHALL be distributed in the same amount of time it took to build up, or faster.
   2. If 'voter_share' is chosen, `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` shall be subtracted from `voter_share` instead of `surplus_share`.
```

Author: Used ~your text, but within the "If higher `voter_share` is selected:" bullet instead

1. There SHALL be the following defined shares with settings: `node_operator_commission_share`, `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`, `voter_share`, `surplus_share`
   1. `node_operator_commission_share + node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: each NO receives this percentage of the commission from the borrowed ETH on validators they run. Unlike the remainder of the shares, this is _not_ a protocol revenue (ie, it is not socialized).
   2. `voter_share`: each NO receives a share of revenue based on the vote-eligible RPL staked to their megapool. The overall voter share of revenue is based on the setting, and each NO receives a proportion of that based on `vote_eligible_RPL_in_their_megapool/total_vote_eligible_RPL_in_megapools`.
   3. `surplus_share -  node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`: this share of revenue is used to distribute revenue beyond that used for protocol operation (such as the shares above)

> 2. `reth_commission` SHALL be defined as the sum of all defined shares that have settings

Reviewer: > 1. There SHALL be the following defined shares with settings: `node_operator_commission_share`, `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder`, `voter_share`, `surplus_share`
...
> `reth_commission` SHALL be defined as the sum of all defined shares that have settings

Hmm does `node_operator_commission_share_council_adder` make this not true anymore? Maybe it should say:
> `reth_commission` SHALL be defined as the sum of `node_operator_commission_share`, `voter_share`, and `surplus_share`

or something else?
